| HSP  | Title                      | Author        | Discussions-to | Status | Type            | Category | Created |
|------|----------------------------|---------------|----------------|--------|-----------------|----------|---------|
| 1155 | HAVAH Multi Token Standard | KyoungNam Kim |                | Final  | Standards Track | Contract |         |

# Simple Summary
A standard interface for managing multiple token types (fungible or non-fungible) on HAVAH network.

# Abstract
This document describes an interface that can be used to manage multiple token types in a contract. While the existing standards only support single type of token per contract, either fungible or non-fungible, this standard allows for each token ID to represent a new configurable token type, which may have its own metadata, supply and other attributes.

# Motivation
Existing token standards like HSP-20 and HSP-721 only can handle a single type of token, thus users need to deploy multiple token contracts separately to manage different types of tokens. In some applications, notably games that may be creating thousands of traceable items and exchanging them between users, this limitation is something that is hard to endure and costs much.

This standard is inspired by the [ERC-1155 Multi Token Standard](https://github.com/ethereum/EIPs/blob/master/EIPS/eip-1155.md), we propose new functionality that is capable of transferring multiple token types at once and saving the transaction costs.

# Specification
## Methods
### balanceOf
Returns the balance of the owner's tokens.

```Java
@External(readonly = true)
public BigInteger balanceOf(Address _owner, BigInteger _id)
```

### balanceOfBatch
Returns the balance of multiple owner/id pairs.

```Java
@External(readonly = true)
public BigInteger[] balanceOfBatch(Address[] _owners, BigInteger[] _ids)
```

### safeTransferFrom
Transfers `_value` amount of an token `_id` from one address to another address, and must fire `TransferSingle` event to reflect the balance change. When the transfer is complete, this method must invoke `onHSP1155Received` in `_to`, if `_to` is a contract. If the `onHSP1155Received` method is not implemented in `_to` (receiver contract), then the transaction must fail and the transfer of tokens should not occur. If `_to` is an externally owned address, then the transaction must be sent without trying to execute `onHSP1155Received` in `_to`. Additional `_data` can be attached to this token transaction, and it should be sent unaltered in call to `onHSP1155Received` in `_to`. `_data` can be empty. Throws unless the caller is the current token holder or the approved address for the token ID. Throws if `_from` does not have enough amount to transfer for the token ID. Throws if `_to` is the zero address.

```Java
@External
public void safeTransferFrom(Address _from, Address _to, BigInteger _id, BigInteger _value, @Optional byte[] _data)
```

### safeBatchTransferFrom
Transfers `_values` amount(s) of token(s) `_ids` from one address to another address, and must fire `TransferSingle` or `TransferBatch` event to reflect all the balance changes. When all the transfers are complete, this method must invoke `onIRC31Received` or `onHSP1155BatchReceived` in `_to`, if `_to` is a contract. If the `onHSP1155BatchReceived` method is not implemented in `_to` (receiver contract), then the transaction must fail and the transfers of tokens should not occur. If `_to` is an externally owned address, then the transaction must be sent without trying to execute `onHSP1155BatchReceived` in `_to`. Additional `_data` can be attached to this token transaction, and it should be sent unaltered in call to `onHSP1155BatchReceived` in `_to`. `_data` can be empty. Throws unless the caller is the current token holder or the approved address for the token IDs. Throws if length of `_ids` is not the same as length of `_values`. Throws if `_from` does not have enough amount to transfer for any of the token IDs. Throws if `_to` is the zero address.

```Java
@External
public void safeBatchTransferFrom(Address _from, Address _to, BigInteger[] _ids, BigInteger[] _values, @Optional byte[] _data)
```

### setApprovalForAll
Enables or disables approval for a third party (`_operator`) to manage all of the caller's tokens, and must fire `ApprovalForAll` event on success.

```Java
@External
public void setApprovalForAll(Address _operator, boolean _approved)
```

### isApprovedForAll
Returns the approval status of an operator for a given owner.

```Java
@External(readonly = true)
public boolean isApprovedForAll(Address _owner, Address _operator)
```


## Eventlogs
### TransferSingle
Must trigger on any successful token transfers, including zero value transfers as well as minting or burning. When minting/creating tokens, the `_from` must be set to zero address. When burning/destroying tokens, the `_to` must be set to zero address.

```Java
@EventLog(indexed = 3)
public void TransferSingle(Address _operator, Address _from, Address _to, BigInteger _id, BigInteger _value)
```

### TransferBatch
Must trigger on any successful token transfers, including zero value transfers as well as minting or burning. When minting/creating tokens, the `_from` must be set to zero address. When burning/destroying tokens, the `_to` must be set to zero address.

```Java
@EventLog(indexed = 3)
public void TransferBatch(Address _operator, Address _from, Address _to, byte[] _ids, byte[] _values)
```

### ApprovalForAll
Must trigger on any successful approval (either enabled or disabled) for a third party/operator address to manage all tokens for the `_owner` address.

```Java
@EventLog(indexed = 2)
public void ApprovalForAll(Address _owner, Address _operator, boolean _approved)
```

### URI
Must trigger on any successful URI updates for a token ID. URIs are defined in [RFC 3986](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc3986). The URI must point to a JSON file.

```Java
@EventLog(indexed = 1)
public void URI(BigInteger _id, String _value)
```

## Token Receivers
Smart contracts that want to receive tokens from HSP1155-compatible token contracts must implement all of the following receiver methods to accept transfers.

### onHSP1155Received

A method for handling a single token type transfer, which is called from the multi token contract. It works by analogy with the fallback method of the normal transactions and returns nothing. Throws if it rejects the transfer.

```Java
@External
public boolean onHSP1155Received(Address _operator, Address _from, BigInteger _id, BigInteger _value, byte[] _data)
```

### onHSP1155BatchReceived

A method for handling multiple token type transfers, which is called from the multi token contract. It works by analogy with the fallback method of the normal transactions and returns nothing. Throws if it rejects the transfer.

```Java
@External
public boolean onHSP1155BatchReceived(Address _operator, Address _from, BigInteger[] _ids, BigInteger[] _values, byte[] _data)
```

## Metadata Extensions
To provide rich set of asset metadata for a given token, smarts contracts need to implement the following method to return an URI that points to a JSON file.

### uri

Returns an URI for a given token ID.

```Java
@External(readonly = true)
public String uri(BigInteger _id)
```

# Implementation
- [smart-contract-examples/hsp1155-token at master · havah-project/smart-contract-examples ](https://github.com/havah-project/smart-contract-examples/tree/master/hsp1155-token)
- [GitHub - havah-project/sclib-token: A Havah Library for Standard Tokens](https://github.com/havah-project/sclib-token) 

# References
- [HSP-20 Token Standard](HSP-20.md)
- [HSP-721 Non-Fungible Token Standard](HSP-721.md)
- [EIPs/eip-1155.md at master · ethereum/EIPs](https://github.com/ethereum/EIPs/blob/master/EIPS/eip-1155.md)

# Copyright
Copyright and related rights waived via [CC0](https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0).