| HSP  | Title                              | Author        | Discussions-to | Status | Type             | Category  | Created |
|------|------------------------------------|---------------|----------------|--------|------------------|-----------|---------|
| 721  | HAVAH Non-Fungible Token Standard  | KyoungNam Kim |                | Final  | Standards Track  | Contract  |         |

# Simple Summary
A standard interface for non-fungible tokens on HAVAH network.

# Abstract
This draft HSP describes non-fungible tokens (NFTs) standard interface to provide basic functionality to track and transfer NFTs. NFTs can represent ownership over digital or physical assets, which can be owned and transferred by individuals as well as consignment to third party operators.

# Motivation
A standard interface allows wallet/broker/auction applications to work with any NFT on HAVAH network.

This standard is inspired by the [ERC721](https://github.com/ethereum/EIPs/blob/master/EIPS/eip-721.md) token standard.

# Specification
## Methods
### name
Returns the name of the token. e.g. `CryptoBears`.

```Java
@External(readonly=true)
public String name()
```

### symbol
Returns the symbol of the token. e.g. `CBT`.
```Java
@External(readonly=true)
public String symbol()
```

### tokenURI
Returns an URI for a given token ID.

```Java
@External(readonly=true)
public String tokenURI(BigInteger _tokenId)
```

### balanceOf
Returns the number of NFTs owned by `_owner`. NFTs assigned to the zero address are considered invalid, so this function SHOULD throw for queries about the zero address.

```Java
@External(readonly=true)
public int balanceOf(Address _owner)
```

### ownerOf
Returns the owner of an NFT. Throws if `_tokenId` is not a valid NFT.

```Java
@External(readonly=true)
public Address ownerOf(BigInteger _tokenId)
```

### getApproved
Returns the approved address for a single NFT. If there is none, returns the zero address. Throws if `_tokenId` is not a valid NFT.

```Java
@External
public Address getApproved(BigInteger _tokenId)
```

### approve
Allows `_approved` to change the ownership of `_tokenId` from your account. The zero address indicates there is no approved address. Throws unless `msg.sender` is the current NFT owner.

```Java
@External
public void approve(Address _approved, BigInteger _tokenId)
```

### isApprovedForAll
Returns the approval status of an operator for a given owner.

```Java
@External(readonly = true)
public boolean isApprovedForAll(Address _owner, Address _operator)
```

### setApprovalForAll
Enables or disables approval for a third party (`_operator`) to manage all of the caller's tokens, and must fire `ApprovalForAll` event on success.

```Java
@External
public void setApprovalForAll(Address _operator, boolean _approved)
```

### transferFrom
Transfers the ownership of an NFT from one address to another address, and MUST fire the `Transfer` event. Throws unless `msg.sender` is the current owner or the approved address for the NFT. Throws if `_from` is not the current owner. Throws if `_to` is the zero address. Throws if `_tokenId` is not a valid NFT.

```Java
@External
public void transferFrom(Address _from, Address _to, BigInteger _tokenId)
```

### safeTransferFrom
Transfers the ownership of an NFT from one address to another address, and MUST fire the `Transfer` event. Throws unless `msg.sender` is the current owner or the approved address for the NFT. Throws if `_from` is not the current owner. Throws if `_to` is the zero address. Throws if `_tokenId` is not a valid NFT. If `_to` is a contract, this function MUST invoke the function `onHSP721Received(Address,Address,int,bytes)` in `_to`. If the `onHSP721Received` function is not implemented in `_to` (receiver contract), then the transaction must fail and the transfer of tokens should not occur. If `_to` is an externally owned address, then the transaction must be sent without trying to execute `onHSP721Received` in `_to`. `_data` can be attached to this token transaction. `_data` can be empty.

```Java
@External
public void safeTransferFrom(Address _from, Address _to, BigInteger _tokenId, @Optional byte[] _data)
```

### totalSupply
Returns the total token supply.

```Java
@External(readonly = true)
public int totalSupply()
```

### tokenByIndex
Returns a token ID at a given index of all the tokens stored by the contract.

```Java
@External(readonly = true)
public BigInteger tokenByIndex(int _index)
```

### tokenOfOwnerByIndex
Returns a token ID owned by owner at a given index of its token list.

```Java
@External(readonly = true)
public BigInteger tokenOfOwnerByIndex(Address _owner, int _index)
```

## Eventlogs
### Transfer
Must trigger on any successful token transfers.

```Java
@EventLog(indexed = 3)
public void Transfer(Address _from, Address _to, BigInteger _tokenId)
```

### Approval
Must trigger on any successful call to `approve(Address _approved, BigInteger _tokenId)`.

```Java
@EventLog(indexed = 3)
public void Approval(Address _owner, Address _approved, BigInteger _tokenId)
```

### ApprovalForAll
Must trigger on any successful call to `setApprovalForAll(Address _operator, boolean _approved)`.

```Java
@EventLog(indexed = 2)
public void ApprovalForAll(Address _owner, Address _operator, boolean _approved)
```

## Token Fallback
A function for handling change the ownership of an NFT, which is called from the token contract, when a NFT owners or approved call `safeTransferFrom`. `_operator` is the address which called `safeTransferFrom` function, `_from` is the address of the owner of the NFT, `_tokenId` is The NFT identifier, and `_data` is arbitrary attached data. It works by analogy with the fallback function of the normal transactions and returns nothing.

```Java
@External
public boolean onHSP721Received(Address _operator, Address _from, BigInteger _tokenId, byte[] _data)
```


# Implementation
- [smart-contract-examples/hsp721-token at master · havah-project/smart-contract-examples](https://github.com/havah-project/smart-contract-examples/tree/master/hsp721-token)
- [GitHub - havah-project/sclib-token: A Havah Library for Standard Tokens](https://github.com/havah-project/sclib-token) 

# References
- [EIPs/eip-721.md at master · ethereum/EIPs](https://github.com/ethereum/EIPs/blob/master/EIPS/eip-721.md)

# Copyright
Copyright and related rights waived via [CC0](https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0).